lakeformation: Fix various bugs including SELECT permission issues (#20108)
hashicorp/terraform-provider-aws: website/docs/r/lakeformation_permissions.html.markdown

!> **WARNING:** Lake Formation permissions are not in effect by default within AWS. Using this resource will not secure your data and will result in errors if you do not change the security settings for existing resources and the default security settings for new resources. See [Default Behavior and `IAMAllowedPrincipals`](#default-behavior-and-iamallowedprincipals) for additional details.

~> **NOTE:** In general, the `principal` should _NOT_ be a Lake Formation administrator or the entity (e.g., IAM role) that is running Terraform. Administrators have implicit permissions. These should be managed by granting or not granting administrator rights using `aws_lakeformation_data_lake_settings`, _not_ with this resource.

## Default Behavior and `IAMAllowedPrincipals`

**_Lake Formation permissions are not in effect by default within AWS._** `IAMAllowedPrincipals` (i.e., `IAM_ALLOWED_PRINCIPALS`) conflicts with individual Lake Formation permissions (i.e., non-`IAMAllowedPrincipals` permissions), will cause unexpected behavior, and may result in errors.

> When using Lake Formation, you need to choose between these two mutually exclusive options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using Lake Formation, choose ONE of the following options as they are mutually exclusive:
```

1. Use this resource (`aws_lakeformation_permissions`), change the default security settings using [`aws_lakeformation_data_lake_settings`](/docs/providers/aws/r/lakeformation_data_lake_settings.html), and remove existing `IAMAllowedPrincipals` permissions

> 2. Use `IAMAllowedPrincipals` and not use this resource

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Use `IAMAllowedPrincipals` without `aws_lakeformation_permissions` ```

  arn = data.aws_caller_identity.current.arn
}

resource "aws_lakeformation_data_lake_settings" "test" {
  admins = [data.aws_iam_session_context.current.issuer_arn]
}
```

To remove existing `IAMAllowedPrincipals` permissions, use the [AWS Lake Formation Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/lakeformation/) or [AWS CLI](https://awscli.amazonaws.com/v2/documentation/api/latest/reference/lakeformation/batch-revoke-permissions.html).

`IAMAllowedPrincipals` is a hook to maintain backwards compatibility with AWS Glue. `IAMAllowedPrincipals` is a pseudo-entity group that acts like a Lake Formation principal. The group includes any IAM users and roles that are allowed access to your Data Catalog resources by your IAM policies.

This is Lake Formation's default behavior:

* Lake Formation grants `Super` permission to `IAMAllowedPrincipals` on all existing AWS Glue Data Catalog resources.
* Lake Formation enables "Use only IAM access control" for new Data Catalog resources.

For more details, see [Changing the Default Security Settings for Your Data Lake](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lake-formation/latest/dg/change-settings.html).

### Problem Using `IAMAllowedPrincipals`

> AWS does not support combining `IAMAllowedPrincipals` permissions and non-`IAMAllowedPrincipals` permissions. Doing so results in unexpected permissions. For example, this configuration grants a user `SELECT` on a column in a table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
AWS does not support combining `IAMAllowedPrincipals` permissions and non-`IAMAllowedPrincipals` permissions. Doing so results in unexpected permissions and behaviors. For example, this configuration grants a user `SELECT` on a column in a table.
```
